## Signaller Events

There is a number of events that are generating throughout the lifecycle of a signaller.  These events are derived from events and states that are generated by the underlying messenger used by the signaller.  In most cases this is a [primus](https://github.com/primus/primus) websocket connection (or spark).

### Events regarding local state

The following events are generated by the signaller in response to updates n it's own state:

- `connected`

  A connection has been established via the underlying messenger to a signalling server (or equivalent).

- `disconnected`

  The connection has been lost (possibly temporarily) with the signalling server (or transport).  It is possible that the connection will be re-established so this does not necessarily mean the end.

### Events regarding peer state

The following events relate to information that has been relayed to this signaller about other peers:

- `peer:filter`

  The `peer:filter` event is triggered prior to the `peer:announce` or `peer:update` events being fired and provides an application the opportunity to reject a peer.  The handler for this event is passed a JS object that contains a `data` attribute for the announce data, and an `allow` flag that controls whether the peer is to be accepted.

  Due to the way event emitters behave in node, the last handler invoked is the authority on whether the peer is accepted or not (so make sure to check the previous state of the allow flag):

  ```js
  // only accept connections from Bob
  signaller.on('peer:filter', function(evt) {
    evt.allow = evt.allow && (evt.data.name === 'Bob');
  });
  ```

  __NOTE:__ This event handler does use a different syntax in the handler which provides application developers the opportunity to modify data from the event (in this case the `allow` attribute).

- `peer:connected`

  If a peer has passed the `peer:filter` test (either no filtering has been applied, or the allow flag is set to true in the filter events) then a `peer:connected` event will be emitted:

  ```js
  signaller.on('peer:connected', function(id) {
    console.log('peer ' + id + ' has connected');
  });
  ```

  The primary use case for this event is if you are updating part of your application UI to flag in response to a `peer:disconnected` event being fired (which can be due to poor network connectivity), then you can use the `peer:connected` event to restore UI elements to represent an active connection on receiving this event.

- `peer:announce`

  While the `peer:connected` event is triggered each time a peer reconnects and announces to the signalling server, a `peer:announce` event is only emitted by your local signaller if this is considered a new connection from a peer.

  If you are writing a WebRTC application, then this event is the best place to start creating `RTCPeerConnection` objects between the local machine and your remote, announced counterpart.  You will then be able to [couple](https://github.com/rtc-io/rtc#rtccouple) those connections together using the signaller.

  ```js
  signaller.on('peer:announce', function(data) {
    console.log('discovered new peer: ' + data.id, data);

    // TODO: create a peer connection with our new friend :)
  });
  ```

- `peer:update`

  An existing peer in the system has been "re-announced" possibly with some data changes:

  ```js
  signaller.on('peer:update', function(data) {
    console.log('data update from peer: ' + data.id, data);
  });
  ```

- `peer:disconnected`

  A peer has disconnected from the signalling server, but may reconnect if it manages to re-establish connectivity.

  ```js
  signaller.on('peer:disconnected', function(id) {
    console.log('peer ' + id + ' has gone, but they might be back...');
  });
  ```

- `peer:leave`

  This event is triggered when the signaller has previously received a disconnection notification for a peer, and a reconnection has not been made by that peer within a certain time interval.

  The default `leaveTimeout` is configured in the [defaults](https://github.com/rtc-io/rtc-signaller/blob/master/defaults.js) but can be overriden by passing configuration options when creating the signaller.

  ```js
  signaller.on('peer:leave', function(id) {
    console.log('peer ' + id + ' has left :(');
  });
  ```
