docs/protocol.md, before:

# rtc-signaller Protocol Overview

The signalling used by `rtc-signaller` follows some very simple rules:

- All messages are text (utf-8 encoded at present)
- Message parts are delimited by a pipe (`|`) character
- Message commands must be contained in the initial message part and can
  be recognized simply as their first character is the forward slash (`/`)
  character.

---

## Transport Agnostic

While the `rtc-signaller` module provides some default behaviour to connect
via [websockets](http://www.websocket.org/), it is in fact a transport
"agnostic" protocol.

Basically, if you can send text over _x_ then you could use _x_ to send
`rtc-signaller` messages.

---

## Core Commands

There are only a few core commands which make up the rtc-signaller signalling. These core commands should receive "special" treatment from a signalling server, whereas other commands are simply "passed through" to connected clients.

---

## /announce

The announce command is used to tell a signalling server (and connected peers) that a new client is joining a virtual room.  The payload of the command is JSON and requires __at least__ an `id` and a `room` attribute to be specified.

For example, this is what an announce message would typically look like:

```
TODO: include example
```

---

## /leave

---

## /to

---

Commit message:

Added information on /leave and /to messages

docs/protocol.md, after:

# rtc-signaller Protocol Overview

The signalling used by `rtc-signaller` follows some very simple rules:

- All messages are text (utf-8 encoded at present)
- Message parts are delimited by a pipe (`|`) character
- Message commands must be contained in the initial message part and can
  be recognized simply as their first character is the forward slash (`/`)
  character.

---

## Transport Agnostic

While the `rtc-signaller` module provides some default behaviour to connect
via [websockets](http://www.websocket.org/), it is in fact a transport
"agnostic" protocol.

Basically, if you can send text over _x_ then you could use _x_ to send
`rtc-signaller` messages.

---

## Core Commands

There are only a few core commands which make up the rtc-signaller signalling. These core commands should receive "special" treatment from a signalling server, whereas other commands are simply "passed through" to connected clients.

---

## /announce

The announce command is used to tell a signalling server (and connected peers) that a new client is joining a virtual room.  The payload of the command is JSON and requires __at least__ an `id` and a `room` attribute to be specified.

For example, this is what an announce message would typically look like:

```
TODO: include example
```

---

## /leave

Unsurprisingly, a `/leave` message is the counterpart to an `/announce` message and is sent when a peer is disconnecting from the room.

__NOTE:__ As most client leave actions are "hard closes", i.e. a browser window / tab has been closed, a signalling server should monitor disconnections and issue an appropriate `/leave` message if the client has not issued one already.

---

## /to

The `/to` command allows you to direct a message to a particular peer rather than broadcasting it to all peers connected to the same room as you.

An example `/to` command might look something like:

```
/to|51469ae5-5d9f-4294-84dd-83ce3b37b7dd|/hello
```

---
